Mobility is a major benefit of virtualization.
So let's take a look at how virtualizing our infrastructure can provide us with these mobility benefits.
So why is mobility such an important benefit.
Well maybe we have multiple hosts and we've got many virtual machines running on all of these hosts
and the workload isn't very balanced.
Right.
In this case we see a host one which has three virtual machines running on it.
We may want to migrate some of those VMs to host to to equalize the workload on those two hosts So that's
reason number one we want to make sure that the resource utilization of our hosts is fairly evenly utilized.
If Host 1 is running really low on memory maybe we move some VMS to some other host.
And ideally I'd love to do that without any downtime.
Do some sort of live migration or Wii motion to take a running VM and move it from one physical server
to another with no downtime.
So that's one reason we might want to migrate VM.
Another reason is maybe we need to perform some sort of maintenance.
Maybe I need to install some physical memory and a host or do some other sort of physical maintenance.
And so I know I'm going to have downtime on a host.
So I migrate all of the VM to another host perform my maintenance install my memory or whatever it is
I need to do.
Maybe I'm installing patches and I need to reboot I can migrate all the VMS off of that host and do
whatever I need to and then bring them back once the host is back up.
So those are two of the most common reasons to migrate virtual machines is the number one.
Give us some sort of performance benefit or number to avoid downtime.
So let's take a look at an example migration.
And here we have a virtual machine running on Host 1.
We see a host up here with a VM running on it.
And I want to do something to this host maybe patching it right.
If we're talking about a VM where ESX host maybe update manager has just installed patches and I need
to reboot this host.
So in that case Ideally I'd like to get all of the names off of it first.
So what I can do is initiate a migration of this VM from Host 1 to host 2 but there's a few things that
need to be in place in order for this to happen.
Number one and most important on the list shared storage.
This VM is not just running on the host.
It also has a set of files right.
It's got a virtual disk it's got a configuration file.
It might have snapshots.
If I'm going to take that VM and move it down here to host to host to needs to be able to access that
set of files right so that is my first prerequisite if I'm going to move that VM from one host to another
that VMS files must be available.
This second requirement that I have as a prerequisite is that this virtual machine has a virtual neck
on it.
This is a VM that has network access and that virtual neck is connected to a virtual switch and it's
probably on a V level and the virtual switches connected to physical switch and the virtual machine
is address accordingly.
All right this VM exists on some Wii land.
It's got some port group on the virtual wall switch.
If I move this V.M. down to this ESX I host and the virtual switch there does not have a matching configuration.
And that network is now unavailable.
That's not going to work out very well.
So I've got to have a compatible network on both of these hosts.
Basically the way you want to think about it is the VM right now is running on host one.
I don't want the VM to see anything different when it moves the host to.
Right now I want the compatible processors I want if there am Dione host one I want them to be HMD on
hosts too.
If they're intel on Host 1 I want them to be intel on Host 2 right.
I want these two host to be pretty much as close to identical as I can possibly get them.
And definitely when it comes to the network and storage configuration they need to match up.
And then finally I need some way to copy the VM from Host 1 to host 2.
So we're going to have a special network that takes all of the contents of memory takes what's currently
happening on this VM and creates a copy of it here.
On the other host.
OK so now that I've covered my prerequisites the rest of this is actually pretty straightforward right.
A copy of the VM is going to be created on a destination host.
In this case let's use a little bit of the Amwell terminology.
We're going to use something called a VM kernel port to create a network and that network is going to
be used to create a copy of this VM on the destination host.
And when that copy is complete we will capture everything that's changed in that VM during that copy
process.
We call this a memory bitmap all the contents of that memory bitmap are transferred over to the new
copy of the VM and that now becomes my live running virtual machine.
And the downtime is so met my new that it's not even perceptible to the users of my application.
This is called the live migration or a Wii motion of a virtual machine as I take it while it's running
and move it from one host to another.
And this opens up all sorts of flexibility for me because I can move the arms wherever I need them to
be.
The other door that this opens to me is I can do automated load balancing I can group together hosts
in what's called the cluster.
And once I group those hosts together what I want to do is allow my virtual machines to take advantage
of the resources of the cluster as a whole.
I want to consider all four of these hosts kind of interchangeable and I don't really care which host
my VMs are running on.
If the Dems need to move around to equalize workload lets allow that to happen and lets allow it to
happen automatically.
That's the purpose of automatic load balancing in VM whereas terminology this is called distributed
resource scheduler or Dior's in order to allow virtual machine to automatically beat a live migrated
from host to host.
For the purposes of load balancing across those hosts.